Are you earning decently in your early
30s and thinking about ICIC Lumbard
Elevate as your main health plan? Let's
see if it actually makes sense for you
or if you're better off looking
elsewhere. Hello folks, you're tuned
into insurance, I'm Shashank and if you
need expert advice regarding health or
term insurance at no cost to you, just
head to the link in the description and
book your free call. 10 lakh plus people
chose us and they're not disappointed
because we don't spam and we assist you
from application till claims. If you're
in your early 30s living in a metro like
Bangalore, Mumbai, Delhi, Hyderabad,
earning about 8 to 15 LPA, maybe working
in tech, consulting, product or finance,
and you're finally getting serious about
your own health cover instead of just
relying on your company policy, then
this one's for you. Let's quickly get
the basics out of the way first. First,
coverage. If you're in a tier one city
like Bangalore, you should ideally
target at least 15 to 20 lakhs of cover
for yourself. And if it's a couple or
small family floater, aim for 20 to 25
lakhs. Anything like 5 or 7 1/2 lakhs
feels cheap today. Sure, but between
hospital inflation and rising treatment
costs, that number gets outdated really
fast. Second, cheapest isn't always the
best. The goal isn't to buy the lowest
premium plan. It's to buy the most value
for money plan. Third, buy early. The
earlier in your 30s you buy, the lower
your premium and the quicker you'll
clear the two to three waiting periods
for pre-existing conditions and specific
illnesses. All right, with that context,
let's talk about ICI Lomad Elevate Plan
specifically and whether it fits a young
professional profile. IC Lombard is one
of the largest private general insurers
in India. Metrics are on your screen.
So, performance- wise, they're decent on
complaints but only average on
settlement percentage. Now, what do you
get in elevate base plan without adding
anything extra? You get a single private
room eligibility as your default room
category. So, there is a room rent
limit. There's no co-ayment. There's no
deceased wise sub limits. You get 90
days pre and 180 days post
hospitalization. Pretty solid. And you
get daycare treatment, doicillary, arish
all covered up to summon shot just like
any other comprehensive plan. Unlimited
restoration for any illnesses. Now that
last bit is important. Unlimited
restoration is by default. That means if
you exhaust your summon shot, it can
keep refilling multiple times in the
same year for either same or different
illnesses. Now for a young professional,
that's a big plus because you're getting
a robust safety net even if you start
with a modest summon shot like 10 to 15
lakhs. The annual bonus is 20% of your
base summon shot per year up to 100% and
it's given even if you claim which is
nice but not mind-blowing. If you want
aggressive growth of your cover then
there's a separate add-on called power
booster that can give you 100%
cumulative bonus every year up to higher
limits. Now there are also some
interesting inbuilt features that make
elevate stand out a bit. There's
surrogate and usite donor cover up to 5
lakh rupees which is very niche by the
way but useful if you're considering
assisted production. Nursing at home
cover up to 2,000 rupees per day for 10
days post hospitalization. Now, that's a
plus to have. Biatic surgery coverage up
to some insured with conditions and a
2-year waiting period that can be
reduced to 30 days with an add-on.
There's also wellness program where you
can earn up to 30% discount on next
year's premium through steps, health
activities, and app engagement. So, for
a young professional in early 30s, the
base structure is quite strong.
unlimited restoration, solid pre and
post hospitalization, no copay, and
decent wellness link discounts. Well,
now let's talk about add-ons because
elevate is really one of those plans
that is built to be customizable. Now,
the key add-ons that actually make sense
for someone in your profile. Now, number
one is reduction in PD waiting period.
If you already have mild PDs like
hypertension, diabetes, or high
cholesterol, the default waiting period
is 3 years. Now, with this add-on, you
can reduce it to 2 years or even 1 year
depending on what you've chosen. That's
huge if you don't want to wait three
full years for coverage on something you
already know you have. Number two is a
claim protector. Now this covers
consumables like gloves, PP kits, masks,
syringes up to some short, which usually
forms about 10 to 15% of a hospital
bill. Now for a young professional,
every rupee matters and and this can go
a long way in terms of saving money that
would otherwise go out as out of pocket
expense. Number three is a room
modifier. Now since you know that the
base plan has a single private room
restriction with this add-on you can
change it to any room or twin sharing.
If you want complete flexibility to
choose suits or higher category rooms in
future then this add-on is what opens
that up. Now for most young people
single private room is adequate but in
some high-end metro hospitals room
categories can get tricky. So this is
something to think about. Now there are
other add-ons like worldwide cover
critical illness infinite care which is
one infinite value claim be it for OPD
and wellness network advantage but
discounts but copay outside preferred
hospitals and so on. Now some of these
are nice to know about and nice to have
but as a young professional you don't
need to go overboard on every single
one. Now if you're not sure which riders
you actually need and which ones are
just cool on paper you can always book a
free call with your DTOS advisers.
They'll help you customize your policy
without pushing unnecessary add-ons. The
link is in the description. Now,
quickly, let's talk money for a 10 lakh
summon short in Delhi. You can see the
premiums on your screen. Clearly,
Elevate is more economical on premium
while still giving solid base features.
A little detto step here. If you're a
young professional in your early 30s and
budget is a real constraint, Elevate
lets you start with a lower outcore
while still getting unlimited
restoration and decent coverage. Just
don't under buy on someone's short. Aim
for at least 15 to 20 lakhs on a metro,
even if that slightly stretches your
budget. All right. Now, let me be super
upfront about the catches. Number one is
it has an average claim setment ratio.
IC Lombard's average CSR of around 85%
is below some specialized health
insurers like Alita Burla and HDFCO
which sit in the mid90s. Now, now the
complaint numbers are actually better
than the industry which is comforting.
But if you only want the absolute best
claim performance metrics, some
competitors do edge ahead. Catch number
two is the room rent gap, which I have
already mentioned. Yes, single private
room is good, but it's still a
restriction. If you want the freedom to
choose any room category without
worrying about proportionate deductions,
by the way, on which we've made a whole
video, I'll link it here. You must take
the room modifier add-on. And cash
number three is bonus is modest by
default. It's not overwhelming. A 20%
bonus up to 100% is fine as I mentioned
but not as aggressive as plans that
offer 50 to 100% per year up to 500% of
base summit shot. You can fix this with
power booster shot but that means more
premium. And finally catch number four
is there are a lot of add-ons and that
can lead to complexity. The flexibility
is great to have. I mean there's no
doubt about that. But too many moving
parts also mean it's easy to over buy or
misconfigure the plan if you're not
careful. Now you need to be intentional
about what you're adding and why. So the
bottom line is is ICIC8 worth it for
young professionals in the early30s? Now
it could absolutely work for you if you
want a strong base plan with unlimited
restoration, good pre-post coverage, no
copay, and single private room at a
relatively economical price. If you're
okay with ICICI is good but not top tier
claim setment ratio in exchange for
lower premiums and high customization.
Or let's say you plan to use smart
add-ons like claim protector, maybe PD
or specific illness waiting reduction
and potentially maternity later on. Or
let's say you want the option of things
like worldwide cover, beriatric cover,
surrogacy or IVF related benefits down
the line. Now on the other hand, you
might want to look at other alternatives
and if you need help doing that, then
that is where DTO comes in. All you have
to do is pause, scroll down and in the
description you'll find a link. Go ahead
and book your free call with our
advisers. We'll help you compare this
plan with all the other alternatives.
And folks, there'll be no spam and no
pressure to buy. All right, I'll see you
in the next one. Until then, happy
insurance hunting.